>> Jen Kramer: Okay, so
just to sort of tie everything up here,
I have tongue-in-cheek called this
technique the death of Bootstrap.
So let's just evaluate that
statement a little bit.
First of all, obviously,
we are limited here by browser support.
Just like we all, I mean, that's the world
of being a front end web developer.
And so, there are plenty [COUGH]
browsers that
still are not supporting these
custom properties and so forth.
But we have managed to get around
all of those layout problems.
We can now change our columns at will,
we can change our widths at will.
Pretty cool for changing the ways
that we're laying out webpages.
We've done it in a flexible way,
so we have flexible boxes,
we have flexible gaps in between them.
We don't have to do a whole lot of math
to change those things as we go, right?
This formula, you can use again and
again and again within one webpage.
You can use it across a whole
bunch of different websites.
That'll be a pretty cool thing to do,
okay?
Where is Bootstrap still
going to be useful?
Well, it's still going to be
useful if you don't like to write
all your CSS from scratch.
Bootstrap makes it look kind
of pretty from the beginning.
So that's still there.
But Bootstrap, we have broken
the paradigm of the 12 column layout.
You can now have whatever
columns you want.
And we have reduced all of the,
in Bootstrap, as we state over and
over again, all the various different
kinds of layouts and we stack up all
the different kinds of classes to try to
make it work, we've broken that as well.
We can do exactly what we wanna
do wherever we wanna do it.
So that's sort of why I'm calling
this the death of Bootstrap, okay?
>> Jen Kramer: It's been absolutely
fabulous having you all today.
I am happy to take any additional
questions that we might have.
We have some online?
Okay.
>> Speaker 2: What book
recommendations would you have?
>> Jen Kramer: What I have done is all of
this has been stuff that I've read online.
So I did give you a link inside of,
actually,
in the layout that you've been working on,
is a link to this particular post.
I call this Responsive Design 2.0, is my
shorthand for this technique because it is
completely different from the way we've
approached responsive design before.
And this is some additional
resources you can take a look at.
They've all very much informed what
I have presented for you here today.
I've taken techniques from
these various articles.
I've combined them with other things and
and created some of this stuff.
So there's some reading here for
you on calc, on custom properties.
Especially the Smashing magazine articles
are particularly good for this, and
give you examples of how
this kind of thing can work.
I heavily borrowed here from
this responsive designs and
custom properties building
a flexible grid system.
If you take look at that article,
that's where that concept of
the initial basis that we had here.
But if you read his code really quick,
carefully,
he actually uses borders
to create a quote gap.
So the gap part I wrote myself, okay?
Then, we have some additional
stuff here on grids,
including somebody was asking
earlier about grid with variables.
Here's an article on that,
variables plus grid.
So absolutely you can
combine this technique there.
There's some more things on flexbox,
flexbox grid systems, and
then the games that you probably
already are familiar with.
So feel free to go through this list.
That's probably gonna be better for
you than a book at this point in time.
Yes, we have another question.
>> Speaker 2: Kelly is asking,
with Bootstrap there's a lot of utility
classes for adding margin and padding.
Here, you're kinda moving all
of the concerns to the CSS.
Do you think that's the future of CSS or
that's-
>> Jen Kramer: Well, so remember,
the technique that I presented here today,
basically did the following.
We said whatever we're going to change
across the media queries we put up in
a CSS variable, right?
Then we call that variable, we set up
all of our logic in the mobile out.
And then, in the media queries, we just
change the values of our variables.
So in something like margin,
I gave you one minor example here, and
I did not go back and re factor all of the
other code that I could have gone back and
re-factored.
The time line was too short.
But you can go back and take a look at it.
What is actually changing from
media query to media query?
So if you start with a margin at x,
right, and
you're gonna change it to y,
set it up as a variable,
change the value of the variable
when you get into the media query.
So it's a technique you can apply to
pretty much anything along the way.
I put it here in layouts and
in type because those
are pretty dramatic examples of how you
can really leverage this technique.
But those are equally valid, so you can
apply it to margins and patterns and
other various things.
>> Jen Kramer: Thank you all so
much for all the questions.
I've enjoyed it, and
I look forward to seeing what you
create with this new technique.
So thank you very much.
>> Audience: [APPLAUSE]